# Model-to-Model Transformation

- S4 uses a UI PIM as input and provides adapted PIMs as output which should serve different visual impairments, e.g., blindness, deafness, low vision. They adapt their UI PIMs based on information from user disability profiles and the used  UI components to adapted ones, e.g., to use different output devices. This transformation is performed with a set of basic and adaptation rules. They provide some concrete implementation examples. The second model-to-model transformation creates PSMs depending on the platform, e.g., web, mobile, or desktop.
- S19 transforms a task model to an abstract UI model as well as the abstract UI model to an IMS Access For All Digital Resource Description Information Model based on ISO/ IEC24751 for describing digital learning resources. The descriptions are on a very high level and including accessibility in the MDE process was done by revising all existing meta-models and transformation rules manually. 
- S20 relies on several transformations, e.g., from a task model to a tailored task model, from abstract UIs to tailored abstract UIs, and from concrete UIs to concrete UIs tailored for specific accessibility needs. They have defined a set of adaptation rules and given some concrete examples in the paper.
- S24 suggests model-to-model transformations from WebML models without accessibility requirements to other ones incorporating accessibility requirements such as for complex interface components. They suggest using platform-specific details described in the non-normative WCAG 2.0 document to derive transformation requirements and modeling requirements for the WebML process. These transformation requirements impact the code template mechanism, e.g., adding text alternatives to all non-text content. The approach provides some examples but lacks a concrete implementation.
- S5 uses several model-to-model transformations: They transform an accessible UI model and an interaction platform model, e.g., for a smartphone or desktop application, to an accessible UI model adapted to a specific interaction platform. The latter is then transformed to a model for a specific execution platform. The authors describe an Accessible User Interface metamodel and an Interaction Platform metamodel together with natural language descriptions of the main transformations into Objective C and XHTML.

The other four primary studies transform abstract UI models into PSMs. 
- S16 transforms task and domain models to abstract UI models and then to concrete UI models based on the Cameleon reference framework. The authors provide a list of media player accessibility requirements and their mapping to design primitives to be followed by modelers.
- S17 transforms an abstract UI description to platform-specific UI models.
- S28 relies on transformations from PIMs to PSMs. They create their own PIMs for users with accessibility requirements, e.g., blind users, and associate existing general PIMs with these specific ones. Concrete details are missing. 
- S27 transforms abstract UI models and context models to concrete UI models embedding semantic annotations for accessibility needs. They transform abstract UI models into application interface models for the communication between the UI and other components of the application. 
